Hey, guys, what's up?
This is a marathon, and I welcome you to another story on this course on Ruby and I that told you in
the previous tutorial we are going to be covering the comparison between Ruby and C++ in this tutorial.
So we're starting off with some of the similarities between the two languages, just like in C++, in
Ruby, the public, private and protected works in a very similar way as they work in C++.
Now, inheritance syntax is still only one character, but the only difference is that in Ruby you have
to use a colon instead of the less than key word that is used in C++.
The next one is that the way namespace is used in C++, in the similar way, we may put our code into
modules in Ruby as well.
One more similarity here is that there are many similar operators that are found in Ruby as well as
there are found in the C++ programming languages.
And the last one is that tor the keyboard names have been changed to protect the innocent.
Exceptions work in a similar manner as it work in C++.
Only the keywords have been changed by the working criteria is the very same for the exceptions as they
are in C++.
You will encounter exceptions in the future tutorials.
So now we're talking about some of the comparisons between the two languages.
The first one is that in a ruby, every variable is just an automatically dereference name for some
object, which means that there is no explicit reference in Ruby, whereas in C++, unlike Ruby, there
is explicit reference in C++.
The next one is that objects are strongly but dynamically typed in Ruby and in C++ objects are not strongly
type as that in Ruby.
The constructor is called Initialise instead of the class name, whereas this is not the case in C++.
The next one is that array and hash are the only two container types in Ruby and in C++.
There are many container types.
The next one is that there is no need of C++ templates, no casting either required in Ruby, whereas
in C++ templates are necessary and casting is also there in C++.
Talking about some of the more comparisons between the two languages in Ruby itself, instead of this
for the current object and in C++, it is this instead of self, it is actually reciprocal.
The next one is that in Ruby iteration is done a bit differently.
In Ruby, you don't use a separate iterator object.
Instead, you use an iterative method of the container object that takes a block of code to which it
passes successive elements, whereas in C++ the vectors are acquired and used, which makes the coding
very easy.
The next comparison is that in Ruby LRIP, a unit testing comes standard with Ruby, which is not available
with C++.
And there are no type convergence in Ruby where as type conversion is necessary in C++.
There are some enforced this convergence in Ruby, whereas no such case conversions are present in C++,
which makes it a bit easy from Ruby.
The next comparison between the two languages is based on the class, so you can reopen a class any
time and also you can add more methods and Ruby, whereas you cannot do this in C++, the next one is
that some methods and and question mark or an exclamation mark in Ruby is basically actually the part
of the method name.
There is no such symbols are required at the end of methods in C++.
Next one is that all methods are always virtual in Ruby, whereas in C++ methods are not virtual, multi
threading is built in Ruby, whereas multi threading is not built in C++.
Parenthesis used for calling of method are usually optional in Ruby, whereas parenthesis are required
in C++ and it is necessary to put them.
Not putting them is going to generate error messages for you.
The next one is that you don't directly access member variables.
All accesses to public members variables is through methods, whereas member variables in C++ can be
accessed directly.
So this was basically a brief comparison between C++ and Ruby, and if you have been to see or you have
been to C++, then I guess you have got a very good idea of how Ruby is going to work on in the future
tutorials.
So I guess that's it with this tutorial.
Thank you so much, guys, for watching.
And I guess I'll see you guys in the next territorial.